                     ---- GIT ----

1. git init - initializing git local repository
2. git status - shows unsaved changes
3. to save the changes to the stage ways 
      1. git add --A  - stages all changes
      2. git add --all - same as --A
      3. git add .  - stages the changes under the current directory only not the entire project folder
      4. git add *  - stages only the new or modified data and does not change the deleted data
      5. git add *.txt  - stages all text files
4. git clone (repo link)  - to clone the remote repository to local folder 
5. git reset - unsaves the recent staged changes
6. git reset --hard  - to retreive the deleted files 
7. to delete a file and stage at the same time
        1. git rm file.txt - removes the committed file
        2. git rm --f file.txt  - force deletes if changes not committed
        3. git rm --cached file.txt  - deleted file only from stage not from the local device
        4. git rm folder_name   - deletes the folder only
        5. git rm --r folder_name  - deleted the folder with all of its sub folders  
8. git commit -m "commit msg"  - commit
9. git log  - to view the list of all commmits
10. git branch new_branch_name  - creates a new branch
11. git checkout branch_name  - switches the mentioned branch 
12. if both master and side branches are changed and committed in a same line then arises " merge conflict " during merging both the branches. must be resolved mannually
13. git checkout "commit-id"  - to go back to the previous project version of particular commit
14. git diff "recent commit id" "prev commit id"  - to identify the difference between 2 commits, whats added and whats removed
15. git fetch  - to fetch the direct changes made in remote repo
16. git merge  - to merge the fetched changes
17. git pull  - fetch+ merge
18. git restore file/folder name / .(whole repo)  - reverts to the recent commited version
19. git stash / git stash pop  - to switch branches without losing changes made in current branch (not merged with main)


